So let's go ahead and see how we can test our API.
So first let's run peach B unit inside Visual Studio the terminal and we can see that we have one outstanding
error from our previous test that we have written.
And it says that it cannot find no comments yet text with an exclamation point.
So you might remember that we did this inside the post test BHP.
So let's try to find it.
Where do we actually verify that
yes so the thing is that in our test we are checking for text with an exclamation point were actually
what we are doing is after using their translations the text is a little bit different.
So it should be like this one.
So let's fix this one quickly save the changes and rerun tests again so everything is green.
And now from this point we can create our first test for the API.
So of course we can quickly generate that using peach B artisan to make test and let's call it API post
comments test.
And now let's find it inside the tests feature folder.
So this is our brand new test let's close all this windows for time bang and you can see this has added
an additional test.
So when you rerun your test suite you should have one more assertion.
OK.
So we have this class.
Now let's actually implemented and see how we can test our Jason API.
Now since our tests for the API are functional tests they actually interact directly with our application
and then they also interact with that database.
What you should do is to first import our reference database straight which actually should have the
use statement for already generated by Lavell.
And what this does is it will reset our test database before each individual test is being run.
So it's a very handy thing to have.
Now let's go ahead and see how we can implement our first test so we don't need those comments here.
And let's rename this test to actually have a meaningful name.
So this would be test blog post or no test.
New Blog Post does not have comments so you can guess what we'll be checking for.
So we'll be checking if after adding a new blog post we won't have any comments listed because this
is expected behavior.
So now let's think I've said that before each test using a refreshed database trait will reset that
as database.
So we are starting with no blog post no user no nothing.
So we have to create something first.
So for that we can use factory function.
And first we need to create a blog post mind that import that was added here.
So we will create a new blog post
so calling this that way won't work because as you might remember now each blog post actually has to
have a user I.D. assigned.
So we need to overwrite some values we can do that inside the array pass to the create method.
And what you need to do is to parse the user I.D..
Now we don't have to call the factory to create a new user since we have modified our base test case
class before to contain a simple user method which you can use in all the classes that extend this based
test case class.
And this will just create a new user for us so we can just do this user which will generate a new user
model.
And from that model we'll get an I.D..
So that's the first thing we'll have to do.
And now how do we actually call our API so of course a lot of it comes with some handy methods to do
this and the useful one is called Jason.
So what you will do is you will call this Jason specify HDP verb.
In our case this would beget.
Then you have to specify the you url.
So this would be the URL of this blog post and additionally if this is our post or put request you can
add a body that would be sent as Jason then you can of course assert whether the TTP status code is
expect that and there are some handy methods for checking Jason one of them is asset Jason which will
check which would check if the Jason returned is exactly as we have specified here.
Of course we specify it using BHP or race but Lavell will know how to compare that in this case.
It's not really useful for it for us but well let's at least try the first part.
So we have our response and we do this Jason our method is get and the end point is api v1.
So we have the version 1.
Then there is posts with Ida one and it is Ida 1 because we have just added a new blog post to an empty
database and slash comments
now we've made a call and now we can check if the response has the correct status.
In this case this would be 200 OK.
Now let's run it and we have 12 test for these assertions.
So we have only one assertion right now in this class.
And while it works.
So we have just created a blog post and we are checking whether there is any response to this comment.
Now if you do this you Earl.
Now if you will comment this factory out and you will run this test you can see that we got a 404 error
which means that this test is actual useful because if there is no blog post we've I.D. one which there
isn't.
After we have commented out this then of course there won't be anything under there slash comments you
Earl.
OK.
So we have only checked so far for the status code.
Now let's see how we can verify what would be inside this response so how can we verify if the data
inside the response is actually what we want.
So first let's see how the actual response looks like inside postman.
So this is our API endpoint for blog post 1 with comments of course.
Data comes from our application database not from the test database.
So if you will make this request you can see that it actually starts with our data key which in this
case won't contain anything in case of our test of course.
And then at the bottom you have another section called links and then are meter section.
So using the I said Jason call for this wouldn't make sense because we will actually have to verify
all the exact values from this Jason responses as you can see it's quite big.
There are some links to the pages.
There are some meta information.
So if you just want to check whether this is actually more or less correct what you expect you can use
another method called assert Jason structure and inside it.
It's just enough to start with an array and then we want to have the entries for data for links and
for the meta
so this might seem a little bit complicated but this is actually explained inside the documentation.
So if you scroll a little bit to the down on this page you can see us or J some structure.
And this is actually checking for the adjacent structure if it looks at how you'd like it.
So it only checks whether a certain keys are actually inside the Jason response now.
This method is not really very well documented inside the lateral documentation so let's see what actually
happens here.
So remember what how the top level response looks like.
So it is an object and well in P we basically when we translate Jason to BHP code we use arrays for
everything.
So what we are doing here is we are checking whether the main object has a key called data has a key
called links and then whether it has the key called meta which would actually match the Jason that his
bank returns.
So we have data here but we ignored what's inside.
Then we have links we also ignore what's inside and then we have meta and we also ignore whatever is
inside it so let's run this test.
Okay so we have twelve tests for different assertions and it's green.
So how can we be actually certain that there is nothing inside the data.
So there is no not a single comment so we can also do that by not checking the whole Jason.
Exactly.
There is another method called assert J some count so we can verify that we want zero elements inside
a data element.
So how this works is it checks the key data and verifies if under this element there are zero elements.
So let's go back to the response you can see that data is Jason array.
It contains those objects and when there are no comments.
Obviously this should be there should be zero inside.
So let's run this test again and it's still green you can see for two free assertions now if you will
check if there are like two elements then you can see that this test would break you can see that failed
asserting that the actual size much is expected.
Size 2 and of course the actual size is zero.
Okay so this is how we can simply verify if you your Jason responses are the way you would like them
to be.
So let's go ahead and do a more complicated test in the next section.